CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Miden Base

#### First off, thanks for taking the time to contribute!

We want to make contributing to this project as easy and transparent as possible, whether it's:

- Reporting a [bug](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-base/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&projects=&template=1-bugreport.yml)
- Taking part in [discussions](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-base/discussions)
- Submitting a [fix](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-base/pulls)
- Proposing new [features](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-base/issues/new?assignees=&labels=enhancement&projects=&template=2-feature-request.yml)

&nbsp;

## Flow

We are using [Github Flow](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-flow), so all code changes happen through pull requests from a [forked repo](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo).

### Branching

- The current active branch is `next`. Every branch with a fix/feature must be forked from `next`.

- The branch name should contain a short issue/feature description separated with hyphens [(kebab-case)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Letter_case#Kebab_case).

  For example, if the issue title is `Fix functionality X in component Y` then the branch name will be something like: `fix-x-in-y`.

- New branch should be rebased from `next` before submitting a PR in case there have been changes to avoid merge commits.
  i.e. this branches state:

  ```
          A---B---C fix-x-in-y
         /
    D---E---F---G next
            |   |
         (F, G) changes happened after `fix-x-in-y` forked
  ```

  should become this after rebase:

  ```
                  A'--B'--C' fix-x-in-y
                 /
    D---E---F---G next
  ```

  More about rebase [here](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-rebase) and [here](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/rewriting-history/git-rebase#:~:text=What%20is%20git%20rebase%3F,of%20a%20feature%20branching%20workflow.)

### Commit messages

- Commit messages should be written in a short, descriptive manner and be prefixed with tags for the change type and scope (if possible) according to the [semantic commit](https://gist.github.com/joshbuchea/6f47e86d2510bce28f8e7f42ae84c716) scheme.
  For example, a new change to the `miden-objects` crate might have the following message: `feat(miden-objects): Added Account deserialization`

- Also squash commits to logically separated, distinguishable stages to keep git log clean:

  ```
  7hgf8978g9... Added A to X \
                              \  (squash)
  gh354354gh... oops, typo --- * ---------> 9fh1f51gh7... feat(X): add A && B
                              /
  85493g2458... Added B to X /


  789fdfffdf... Fixed D in Y \
                              \  (squash)
  787g8fgf78... blah  blah --- * ---------> 4070df6f00... fix(Y): fixed D && C
                              /
  9080gf6567... Fixed C in Y /
  ```

### Code Style and Documentation

- For documentation in the codebase, we follow the [rustdoc](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/meta/doc.html) convention with no more than 100 characters per line.
- For code sections, we use code separators like the following to a width of 100 characters::

  ```
  // CODE SECTION HEADER
  // ================================================================================
  ```

- [Rustfmt](https://github.com/rust-lang/rustfmt), [Clippy](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-clippy), [Rustdoc](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rustdoc/index.html), [Typos](https://github.com/crate-ci/typos) and [Taplo](https://github.com/tamasfe/taplo) linting is included in CI pipeline. Anyways it's preferable to run linting locally before push. To simplify running these commands in a reproducible manner we use `make` commands, you can install the required tools by running:

  ```
  make install-tools
  ```

  and then run:

  ```
  make lint
  ```

You can find more information about the `make` commands in the [Makefile](Makefile)

### Testing

After writing code different types of tests (unit, integration, end-to-end) are required to make sure that the correct behavior has been achieved and that no bugs have been introduced. You can run tests using the following command:

```
make test
```

### Versioning

We use [semver](https://semver.org/) naming convention.

&nbsp;

## Pre-PR checklist

To make sure all commits adhere to our programming standards we use [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) ([file](.pre-commit-config.yaml)) to run automatic commands on each commit. Please install it and follow the setup instructions for your machine.

1. Repo forked and branch created from `next` according to the naming convention.
2. Commit messages and code style follow conventions.
3. Tests added for new functionality.
4. Documentation/comments updated for all changes according to our documentation convention.
5. Rustfmt, Clippy, Rustdoc, Typos and TOML-formatting linting passed (Will be run automatically by pre-commit).
6. New branch rebased from `next`.

&nbsp;

## Write bug reports with detail, background, and sample code

**Great Bug Reports** tend to have:

- A quick summary and/or background
- Steps to reproduce
- What you expected would happen
- What actually happens
- Notes (possibly including why you think this might be happening, or stuff you tried that didn't work)

&nbsp;

## Any contributions you make will be under the MIT Software License

In short, when you submit code changes, your submissions are understood to be under the same [MIT License](http://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/) that covers the project. Feel free to contact the maintainers if that's a concern.

Commit message:

feat: Add contribution quality section
Co-Authored-By: Adrian Hamelink <adrian.hamelink@gmail.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Miden Base

#### First off, thanks for taking the time to contribute!

We want to make contributing to this project as easy and transparent as possible, whether it's:

- Reporting a [bug](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-base/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&projects=&template=1-bugreport.yml)
- Taking part in [discussions](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-base/discussions)
- Submitting a [fix](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-base/pulls)
- Proposing new [features](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-base/issues/new?assignees=&labels=enhancement&projects=&template=2-feature-request.yml)

&nbsp;

## Contribution Quality

To keep review time focused on meaningful improvements, we generally do not accept:
- Trivial typo fixes
- Minor code or documentation changes that don't materially improve clarity or completeness

Contributions should:
- Include clear reasoning for the change
- Be linked to an issue the author has been assigned to
- Be testable / reviewable without unnecessary overhead
- Pass all CI tests

**We reserve the right to close PRs at our discretion, or batch trivial valid fixes into internal commits.**

## Flow

We are using [Github Flow](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-flow), so all code changes happen through pull requests from a [forked repo](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo).

### Branching

- The current active branch is `next`. Every branch with a fix/feature must be forked from `next`.

- The branch name should contain a short issue/feature description separated with hyphens [(kebab-case)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Letter_case#Kebab_case).

  For example, if the issue title is `Fix functionality X in component Y` then the branch name will be something like: `fix-x-in-y`.

- New branch should be rebased from `next` before submitting a PR in case there have been changes to avoid merge commits.
  i.e. this branches state:

  ```
          A---B---C fix-x-in-y
         /
    D---E---F---G next
            |   |
         (F, G) changes happened after `fix-x-in-y` forked
  ```

  should become this after rebase:

  ```
                  A'--B'--C' fix-x-in-y
                 /
    D---E---F---G next
  ```

  More about rebase [here](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-rebase) and [here](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/rewriting-history/git-rebase#:~:text=What%20is%20git%20rebase%3F,of%20a%20feature%20branching%20workflow.)

### Commit messages

- Commit messages should be written in a short, descriptive manner and be prefixed with tags for the change type and scope (if possible) according to the [semantic commit](https://gist.github.com/joshbuchea/6f47e86d2510bce28f8e7f42ae84c716) scheme.
  For example, a new change to the `miden-objects` crate might have the following message: `feat(miden-objects): Added Account deserialization`

- Also squash commits to logically separated, distinguishable stages to keep git log clean:

  ```
  7hgf8978g9... Added A to X \
                              \  (squash)
  gh354354gh... oops, typo --- * ---------> 9fh1f51gh7... feat(X): add A && B
                              /
  85493g2458... Added B to X /


  789fdfffdf... Fixed D in Y \
                              \  (squash)
  787g8fgf78... blah  blah --- * ---------> 4070df6f00... fix(Y): fixed D && C
                              /
  9080gf6567... Fixed C in Y /
  ```

### Code Style and Documentation

- For documentation in the codebase, we follow the [rustdoc](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/meta/doc.html) convention with no more than 100 characters per line.
- For code sections, we use code separators like the following to a width of 100 characters::

  ```
  // CODE SECTION HEADER
  // ================================================================================
  ```

- [Rustfmt](https://github.com/rust-lang/rustfmt), [Clippy](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-clippy), [Rustdoc](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rustdoc/index.html), [Typos](https://github.com/crate-ci/typos) and [Taplo](https://github.com/tamasfe/taplo) linting is included in CI pipeline. Anyways it's preferable to run linting locally before push. To simplify running these commands in a reproducible manner we use `make` commands, you can install the required tools by running:

  ```
  make install-tools
  ```

  and then run:

  ```
  make lint
  ```

You can find more information about the `make` commands in the [Makefile](Makefile)

### Testing

After writing code different types of tests (unit, integration, end-to-end) are required to make sure that the correct behavior has been achieved and that no bugs have been introduced. You can run tests using the following command:

```
make test
```

### Versioning

We use [semver](https://semver.org/) naming convention.

&nbsp;

## Pre-PR checklist

To make sure all commits adhere to our programming standards we use [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) ([file](.pre-commit-config.yaml)) to run automatic commands on each commit. Please install it and follow the setup instructions for your machine.

1. Repo forked and branch created from `next` according to the naming convention.
2. Commit messages and code style follow conventions.
3. Tests added for new functionality.
4. Documentation/comments updated for all changes according to our documentation convention.
5. Rustfmt, Clippy, Rustdoc, Typos and TOML-formatting linting passed (Will be run automatically by pre-commit).
6. New branch rebased from `next`.

&nbsp;

## Write bug reports with detail, background, and sample code

**Great Bug Reports** tend to have:

- A quick summary and/or background
- Steps to reproduce
- What you expected would happen
- What actually happens
- Notes (possibly including why you think this might be happening, or stuff you tried that didn't work)

&nbsp;

## Any contributions you make will be under the MIT Software License

In short, when you submit code changes, your submissions are understood to be under the same [MIT License](http://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/) that covers the project. Feel free to contact the maintainers if that's a concern.
