# Account ID

> [!Note]
> An immutable and unique identifier for the `Account`.

The `Account` ID is a 120-bit long number. This identifier is designed to contain the metadata of an account. The metadata includes the [account type](#account-type), [account storage mode](#account-storage-mode) and the version of the `Account`. This metadata is included in the ID to ensure it can be determined without needing the full account state.

The ID is generated by hashing a randomly generated seed together with commitments to the initial code and storage of the `Account`. This process requires a small amount of Proof-of-Work (9 bits) that can be done even by low-powered devices. The resulting 256-bit hash is shortened to 120 bits.

### Account type

There are two main categories of accounts in Miden: **basic accounts** and **faucets**.

- **Basic Accounts:**
  Basic Accounts may be either mutable or immutable:
  - *Mutable:* Code can be changed after deployment.
  - *Immutable:* Code cannot be changed once deployed.

- **Faucets:**
  Faucets are always immutable and can be specialized by the type of assets they issue:
  - *Fungible Faucet:* Can issue fungible [assets](../asset.md).
  - *Non-fungible Faucet:* Can issue non-fungible [assets](../asset.md).

Type and mutability are encoded in the two most significant bits of the account's [ID](#id).

### Account storage mode

Users can choose whether their accounts are stored publicly or privately. The preference is encoded in the third and forth most significant bits of the account's [ID](#id):

- **Public Accounts:**
  The account's state is stored on-chain, similar to how accounts are stored in public blockchains like Ethereum.

- **Network `Account`s:**
  The account's state is stored on-chain, just like **public** accounts. Additionally, the network will monitor this account for any public notes targeted at it and attempt to create network transactions against the account, which consume the notes. Contracts that rely on a shared, publicly accessible state (e.g., a DEX) should be network accounts.

- **Private Accounts:**
  Only a commitment (hash) to the account's state is stored on-chain. This mode is suitable for users who prioritize privacy or plan to store a large amount of data in their `Account`. To interact with a private `Account`, a user must have knowledge of its interface.

The storage mode is chosen during `Account` creation, it cannot be changed later.

### Network Accounts

Users can choose whether their `Account` is a network account or not. The network will monitor this account for any public notes targeted at it and attempt to create network transactions against the account, which consume the notes. Because the network must be able to execute transactions against such an account, the storage mode of such accounts must be **Public**.

## Encoding

An `Account` ID can be encoded in different formats:

1. [**Bech32**](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0173.mediawiki) (user-facing):
   - Example: `mm1qzqge9n53l5dpyqav7y0d2j0ggl3dc9m`
   - **Benefits**:
     - Built-in error detection via checksum algorithm
     - Human-readable prefix indicates network type
     - Less prone to transcription errors
   - **Structure**:
     - [Human-readable prefix](https://github.com/satoshilabs/slips/blob/master/slip-0173.md) that
      determines the network:
       - `mm` (indicates **M**iden **M**ainnet)
       - `mtst` (indicates Miden Testnet)
       - `mdev` (indicates Miden Devnet)
     - Separator: `1`
     - Data part with integrated checksum

> **Info**
> - We strongly recommend encoding account IDs using Bech32 for all user-facing applications.
 
2. **Hexadecimal** (debugging):
   - Example: `0x808c96748fe8d0901d6788f6aa4f42`
   - Frequenty used encoding for blockchain addresses
