docs/src/account/id.md, before:

# Account ID

> [!Note]
> An immutable and unique identifier for the `Account`.

The `Account` ID is a 120-bit long number. This identifier is designed to contain the metadata of an account. The metadata includes the [account type](#account-type), [account storage mode](#account-storage-mode) and the version of the `Account`. This metadata is included in the ID to ensure it can be read without needing the full account state.

The ID is generated by hashing a randomly generated seed together with commitments to the initial code and storage of the `Account` until the resulting ID has the desired account type and storage mode. This process requires a small amount of Proof-of-Work (9 bits) that can be done even by low-powered devices. The resulting 256-bit hash is shortened to 120 bits.

Account type and storage mode are chosen at account creation time and cannot be changed later.

### Account type

There are two main categories of accounts in Miden: **basic accounts** and **faucets**.

- **Basic Accounts:**
  Basic Accounts may be either mutable or immutable:
  - *Mutable:* Code can be changed after deployment.
  - *Immutable:* Code cannot be changed once deployed.

- **Faucets:**
  Faucets are always immutable and can be specialized by the type of assets they issue:
  - *Fungible Faucet:* Can issue fungible [assets](../asset.md).
  - *Non-fungible Faucet:* Can issue non-fungible [assets](../asset.md).

### Account storage mode

Users can choose whether their accounts are stored publicly or privately. The preference is encoded in the third and fourth most significant bits of the account's [ID](#id):

- **Public Accounts:**
  The account's state is stored on-chain, similar to how accounts are stored in public blockchains like Ethereum.

- **Network `Account`s:**
  The account's state is stored on-chain, just like **public** accounts. Additionally, the network will monitor this account for any public notes targeted at it and attempt to create network transactions against the account, which consume the notes. Contracts that rely on a shared, publicly accessible state (e.g., an AMM) should be network accounts.

- **Private Accounts:**
  Only a commitment (hash) to the account's state is stored on-chain. This mode is suitable for users who prioritize privacy or plan to store a large amount of data in their `Account`. To interact with a private `Account`, a user must have knowledge of its interface.

## Encoding

An `Account` ID can be encoded in different formats:

1. [**Bech32**](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0173.mediawiki) (user-facing):
   - Example: `mm1qpkdyek2c0ywwvzupakc7zlzty8qn2qnfc`
   - **Benefits**:
     - Built-in error detection via checksum algorithm
     - Human-readable prefix indicates network type
     - Less prone to transcription errors
   - **Structure**:
     - [Human-readable prefix](https://github.com/satoshilabs/slips/blob/master/slip-0173.md) that
      determines the network:
       - `mm` (indicates **M**iden **M**ainnet)
       - `mtst` (indicates Miden Testnet)
       - `mdev` (indicates Miden Devnet)
     - Separator: `1`
     - Data part with integrated checksum

2. **Hexadecimal** (debugging):
   - Example: `0x808c96748fe8d0901d6788f6aa4f42`
   - Frequently used encoding for blockchain addresses

> **Info**
> - We strongly recommend encoding account IDs using Bech32 for all user-facing applications.

Commit message:

feat: Replace bech32 section in account ID

docs/src/account/id.md, after:

# Account ID

> [!Note]
> An immutable and unique identifier for the `Account`.

The `Account` ID is a 120-bit long number. This identifier is designed to contain the metadata of an account. The metadata includes the [account type](#account-type), [account storage mode](#account-storage-mode) and the version of the `Account`. This metadata is included in the ID to ensure it can be read without needing the full account state.

The ID is generated by hashing a randomly generated seed together with commitments to the initial code and storage of the `Account` until the resulting ID has the desired account type and storage mode. This process requires a small amount of Proof-of-Work (9 bits) that can be done even by low-powered devices. The resulting 256-bit hash is shortened to 120 bits.

Account type and storage mode are chosen at account creation time and cannot be changed later.

### Account type

There are two main categories of accounts in Miden: **basic accounts** and **faucets**.

- **Basic Accounts:**
  Basic Accounts may be either mutable or immutable:
  - *Mutable:* Code can be changed after deployment.
  - *Immutable:* Code cannot be changed once deployed.

- **Faucets:**
  Faucets are always immutable and can be specialized by the type of assets they issue:
  - *Fungible Faucet:* Can issue fungible [assets](../asset.md).
  - *Non-fungible Faucet:* Can issue non-fungible [assets](../asset.md).

### Account storage mode

Users can choose whether their accounts are stored publicly or privately. The preference is encoded in the third and fourth most significant bits of the account's [ID](#id):

- **Public Accounts:**
  The account's state is stored on-chain, similar to how accounts are stored in public blockchains like Ethereum.

- **Network `Account`s:**
  The account's state is stored on-chain, just like **public** accounts. Additionally, the network will monitor this account for any public notes targeted at it and attempt to create network transactions against the account, which consume the notes. Contracts that rely on a shared, publicly accessible state (e.g., an AMM) should be network accounts.

- **Private Accounts:**
  Only a commitment (hash) to the account's state is stored on-chain. This mode is suitable for users who prioritize privacy or plan to store a large amount of data in their `Account`. To interact with a private `Account`, a user must have knowledge of its interface.

## Encoding

An `Account` ID can be encoded in different formats:

1. [**Address**](./address.md#types--interfaces):
    - Used when sending or receiving notes or assets.
    - Used to communicate the [account interface](./code.md#interface) between sender and receiver.

2. **Hexadecimal**:
   - Example: `0xd345c9766a2d5e606477a5676b049a`
   - Frequently used encoding for blockchain addresses
   - Used to identify accounts in command-line interfaces or explorers.
